My name is Ubaldo Acosta. I hope you're
ready to begin. Let's review the general
agenda of the Java Programming course.
Are you ready? let's begin. A new behavior:
Polymorphism. In this section we'll study
the characteristics of polymorphism,
what is polymorphism?, where will we use
it? and its relation to object-oriented
programming in Java.
Likewise we'll see the use of the
reserved words  this and super and in turn
the use of this reserve words in Java.
We'll create a project to put this
concept into practice. Types, Conversions
and more: Advanced topics of Objects. In
this section we'll review the concept of
instanceof, the conversion of types in
Java. We'll study the class object and
several of its methods such as toString,
equals and hashCode methods and we'll
see what each of them is for, among
several more concepts. We'll create
several exercises to put this concept
into practice. Understanding the
structure: Handling Code Blocks. We'll
review the different existing code
blocks in Java, such as initialization
blocks and static code blocks. We'll show
the syntax of each one, as well as create
several exercises to put this concept
into practice. We'll also study the scope
of variables in Java. The scopes in Java
are: public, protected, default and
private. We'll see several practical
examples to make clear each one of these
reserved words in Java. Conceptualizing: Abstract
Classes and Interfaces. In this section
we'll analyze the subject of abstract
classes in Java, we'll understand how
to apply this concept to our class
design that require to apply this
concept. Likewise, we will see the syntax
and the restrictions that apply in the
case of using abstract classes in Java.
In turn, will study the topic of
interfaces, we'll also make a comparison
between abstract classes and interfaces and
when it's convenient to use one or
another situation according to the class
design problem that we face. We'll create
several exercises to understand each
concept in a very conscious way.
Understanding the errors: Exception
Handling. In this section we'll define
the concepts for handling exceptions in
Java. We'll study the types of exceptions
that exist in Java and how to handle
each of them. We'll see the syntax
associated with exception handling, from
how to throw an exception, how to catch
and process it and in general how to
handle the whole exception topic in Java.
We'll create several exercises to put
these concepts into practice. Beyond the
Arrays: Collection Management. We'll review the
API of collections in Java. We'll study the
basis of this API. Since it's quite broad
nevertheless with the basis that you
will have once you have study the
subject, you will be able to apply any
kind of the collections API. We'll analyze
the most common types which are the
interfaces of Set, List and Map, as well
as some concrete classes of the
collections API such as ArrayList or
HashMap. We'll develop several exercises
to put this concept into practice.
Abstracting types: Generics in Java. We'll
study the concept of generic types in
Java, also known as generics. We'll see
how to define a class to handle the
generic types, as well as the generic
types that we can use. We will also
review how to convert collections to
generic types and those generate code
less prone to errors. We'll create several
exercises to put this conserving to
practice. Saving information: File
Management. We'll learn how to handle Java
files, as well as the writing and reading
process to them. We will conclude with an
exercise to put this concept into
practice. This is the general agenda of
the Java Programming course. These are
just some of the many more topics that
we'll learn throughout this course. So, if
you're ready, let's begin :)